---
title: "Gender aspects of computer science education"
date: 2021-09-13
draft: true
categories: ["Women","Education","Research"]
---
In our FSFE Women gatherings, we usually propose a topic for the upcoming meeting. I suggested to present women-related papers in computer science and gender aspects of teaching and learning CS, because I came across a couple of papers in that field recently.

In this post, I will start collecting thoughts on these papers.

### Gender Differences in Scratch Programs of Primary School Children
by Alexandra Funke, Katharina Geldreich

[Link to the publication](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3137065.3137067?casa_token=iQAvm2UQJvIAAAAA:uTLehs2IxmH8a00YB-6830pS2dUdsEL8iRCjuNU_QKKO9qTj9_PILKihRT9oeZH7VQlEnZernJy1)

The authors give some theoretical background and related work on the topic of gender differences of programming. They developed a programming course for students of fourth grade of primary schools using Scratch. The topic they chose for programming was Circus, a metaphor they hoped to attract both girls and boys equally.

The author's goal was to investigate the relationship between the student's gender and the characteristics of the program they created.

Analysed the programs and which blocks (programming concepts) girls and boys used.

Some findings listed below:

"We observe that male students use twice as often Motion blocks. Female
students instead use twice as often blocks out of the Look section. The usage of Control and Event blocks are nearly the same for both groups."

They also analyzed interaction and found:

"Most of the projects which contain keyboard control were made by boys."

"An important observation is that the girls produced much more Story-programs (79 % of these were made by girls). Against this, male students developed more programs which were categorized as Game (90 % of these were
made by boys). Animation programs were made 50 % of boys and
50 % of girls."

I think those findings are highly interesting and they should have an effect on educators' strategies to raise interest and to motivate students to learn programming. It is very important to attract both boys and girls for this discipline  . If there are gender differences, teachers need to know about them.

_This is day 59 of my [#100daystooffload](https://100daystooffload.com/) series, a challenge to write 100 blog posts in a year._



