---
title: "Your Emotional API"
date: 2021-06-08
draft: false
categories: ["Health"]
---

I always appreciated, that mental well-being is something people in tech are concerned about. Meaning that, at conferences once in a while you'll see a talk about mental illnesses, depression and how it affects programmers. First time, I noticed that it was a big thing seeing this is even a topic one can talk about. Second time it gave me a moment to talk about it with my co-workers.

I never figured out, if mental deseases are in particular a problem of people working with computers or is it more the fact that there are strong communities and conferences in tech, so there are more chances to talk about it and  make those topics visible.

By far the best talk on this I saw is "Hacking your Emotional API" by John Sawers, here a version of it at RubiConf:

{{< youtube OGDRUI8biTc >}}


I just like the notion of having a way to think about feelings with the concepts and visual tools you know from programming. Maybe it's not working for every one, but it's working for John.

The whole talk is worth looking! It is important being able to express your feelings and to know a way how to deal with them. If you don't have that, it will have negative impacts on your cognitive abilities, the ones you highly depend on as a programmer. And John explains some ways how to approach these things and how to practice.

_This is day 42 of my [#100daystooffload](https://100daystooffload.com/) series, a challenge to write 100 blog posts in a year._

